.. _changes_1_4:

Version 1.4.0
=============

**January 2024**

For a short description of the main highlights of the release, please refer to

Changed models
--------------

The following estimators and functions, when fit with the same data and
parameters, may produce different models from the previous version. This often
occurs due to changes in the modelling logic (bug fixes or enhancements), or in
random sampling procedures.

- |Efficiency| :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegression` and

  solvers `"lbfgs"` and `"newton-cg"`. Both solvers can now reach much higher precision
  for the coefficients depending on the specified `tol`. Additionally, lbfgs can
  make better use of `tol`, i.e., stop sooner or reach higher precision.
  Note: The lbfgs is the default solver, so this change might effect many models.
  This change also means that with this new version of scikit-learn, the resulting
  coefficients `coef_` and `intercept_` of your models will change for these two
  solvers (when fit on the same data again). The amount of change depends on the
  specified `tol`, for small values you will get more precise results.

- |Fix| fixes a memory leak seen in PyPy for estimators using the Cython loss functions.

Changes impacting all modules
-----------------------------

- |MajorFeature| Transformers now support polars output with
  `set_output(transform="polars")`.

- |Enhancement| All estimators now recognizes the column names from any dataframe
  that adopts the
  `DataFrame Interchange Protocol <https://data-apis.org/dataframe-protocol/latest/purpose_and_scope.html>`__.
  Dataframes that return a correct representation through `np.asarray(df)` is expected
  to work with our estimators and functions.

- |Enhancement| The HTML representation of estimators now includes a link to the
  documentation and is color-coded to denote whether the estimator is fitted or
  not (unfitted estimators are orange, fitted estimators are blue).

  `Joel Nothman`_ and :user:`Lilian Boulard <LilianBoulard>`.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in most estimators and functions where setting a parameter to
  a large integer would cause a `TypeError`.

Metadata Routing
----------------

The following models now support metadata routing in one or more or their
methods. Refer to the :ref:`Metadata Routing User Guide <metadata_routing>` for
more details.

- |Feature| :class:`LarsCV` and :class:`LassoLarsCV` now support metadata
  routing in their `fit` method and route metadata to the CV splitter.

- |Feature| :class:`multiclass.OneVsRestClassifier`,

  their ``fit`` and ``partial_fit``, and route metadata to the underlying
  estimator's ``fit`` and ``partial_fit``.

- |Feature| :class:`pipeline.Pipeline` now supports metadata routing according
  to :ref:`metadata routing user guide <metadata_routing>`.

- |Feature| :func:`~model_selection.cross_validate`,

  metadata are routed to the estimator's `fit`, the scorer, and the CV
  splitter's `split`. The metadata is accepted via the new `params` parameter.
  `fit_params` is deprecated and will be removed in version 1.6. `groups`
  parameter is also not accepted as a separate argument when metadata routing
  is enabled and should be passed via the `params` parameter.

- |Feature| :class:`~model_selection.GridSearchCV`,

  in their ``fit`` and ``score``, and route metadata to the underlying
  estimator's ``fit``, the CV splitter, and the scorer.

- |Feature| :class:`~compose.ColumnTransformer` now supports metadata routing
  according to :ref:`metadata routing user guide <metadata_routing>`.

- |Feature| :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV` now supports
  metadata routing. :meth:`linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV.fit` now
  accepts ``**params`` which are passed to the underlying splitter and
  scorer. :meth:`linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV.score` now accepts
  ``**score_params`` which are passed to the underlying scorer.

- |Feature| :class:`feature_selection.SelectFromModel` now supports metadata
  routing in `fit` and `partial_fit`.

- |Feature| :class:`linear_model.OrthogonalMatchingPursuitCV` now supports
  metadata routing. Its `fit` now accepts ``**fit_params``, which are passed to
  the underlying splitter.

- |Feature| :class:`ElasticNetCV`, :class:`LassoCV`,

  now support metadata routing and route metadata to the CV splitter.

- |Fix| All meta-estimators for which metadata routing is not yet implemented
  now raise a `NotImplementedError` on `get_metadata_routing` and on `fit` if
  metadata routing is enabled and any metadata is passed to them.

Support for SciPy sparse arrays
-------------------------------

Several estimators are now supporting SciPy sparse arrays. The following functions
and classes are impacted:

**Functions:**

- :func:`cluster.compute_optics_graph` in :pr:`27104` by

- :func:`cluster.kmeans_plusplus` in :pr:`27179` by :user:`Nurseit Kamchyev <Bncer>`;
- :func:`decomposition.non_negative_factorization` in :pr:`27100` by

- :func:`feature_selection.f_regression` in :pr:`27239` by

- :func:`feature_selection.r_regression` in :pr:`27239` by

- :func:`manifold.trustworthiness` in :pr:`27250` by :user:`Yao Xiao <Charlie-XIAO>`;
- :func:`manifold.spectral_embedding` in :pr:`27240` by :user:`Yao Xiao <Charlie-XIAO>`;
- :func:`metrics.pairwise_distances` in :pr:`27250` by :user:`Yao Xiao <Charlie-XIAO>`;
- :func:`metrics.pairwise_distances_chunked` in :pr:`27250` by

- :func:`metrics.pairwise.pairwise_kernels` in :pr:`27250` by

- :func:`utils.multiclass.type_of_target` in :pr:`27274` by

**Classes:**

- :class:`cluster.HDBSCAN` in :pr:`27250` by :user:`Yao Xiao <Charlie-XIAO>`;
- :class:`cluster.KMeans` in :pr:`27179` by :user:`Nurseit Kamchyev <Bncer>`;
- :class:`cluster.MiniBatchKMeans` in :pr:`27179` by :user:`Nurseit Kamchyev <Bncer>`;
- :class:`cluster.OPTICS` in :pr:`27104` by

- :class:`cluster.SpectralClustering` in :pr:`27161` by

- :class:`decomposition.MiniBatchNMF` in :pr:`27100` by

- :class:`decomposition.NMF` in :pr:`27100` by :user:`Isaac Virshup <ivirshup>`;
- :class:`feature_extraction.text.TfidfTransformer` in :pr:`27219` by

- :class:`manifold.Isomap` in :pr:`27250` by :user:`Yao Xiao <Charlie-XIAO>`;
- :class:`manifold.SpectralEmbedding` in :pr:`27240` by :user:`Yao Xiao <Charlie-XIAO>`;
- :class:`manifold.TSNE` in :pr:`27250` by :user:`Yao Xiao <Charlie-XIAO>`;
- :class:`impute.SimpleImputer` in :pr:`27277` by :user:`Yao Xiao <Charlie-XIAO>`;
- :class:`impute.IterativeImputer` in :pr:`27277` by :user:`Yao Xiao <Charlie-XIAO>`;
- :class:`impute.KNNImputer` in :pr:`27277` by :user:`Yao Xiao <Charlie-XIAO>`;
- :class:`kernel_approximation.PolynomialCountSketch` in  :pr:`27301` by

- :class:`neural_network.BernoulliRBM` in :pr:`27252` by

- :class:`preprocessing.PolynomialFeatures` in :pr:`27166` by

- :class:`random_projection.GaussianRandomProjection` in :pr:`27314` by

- :class:`random_projection.SparseRandomProjection` in :pr:`27314` by

Support for Array API
---------------------

Several estimators and functions support the
`Array API <https://data-apis.org/array-api/latest/>`_. Such changes allows for using
the estimators and functions with other libraries such as JAX, CuPy, and PyTorch.
This therefore enables some GPU-accelerated computations.

See :ref:`array_api` for more details.

**Functions:**

- :func:`sklearn.metrics.accuracy_score` and :func:`sklearn.metrics.zero_one_loss` in

- :func:`sklearn.model_selection.train_test_split` in :pr:`26855` by `Tim Head`_;
- :func:`~utils.multiclass.is_multilabel` in :pr:`27601` by

**Classes:**

- :class:`decomposition.PCA` for the `full` and `randomized` solvers (with QR power
  iterations) in :pr:`26315`, :pr:`27098` and :pr:`27431` by

- :class:`preprocessing.KernelCenterer` in :pr:`27556` by

- :class:`preprocessing.MaxAbsScaler` in :pr:`27110` by :user:`Edoardo Abati <EdAbati>`;
- :class:`preprocessing.MinMaxScaler` in :pr:`26243` by `Tim Head`_;
- :class:`preprocessing.Normalizer` in :pr:`27558` by :user:`Edoardo Abati <EdAbati>`.

Private Loss Function Module
----------------------------

- |FIX| The gradient computation of the binomial log loss is now numerically
  more stable for very large, in absolute value, input (raw predictions). Before, it
  could result in `np.nan`. Among the models that profit from this change are

Changelog
---------

..
    Entries should be grouped by module (in alphabetic order) and prefixed with
    one of the labels: |MajorFeature|, |Feature|, |Efficiency|, |Enhancement|,
    |Fix| or |API| (see whats_new.rst for descriptions).
    Entries should be ordered by those labels (e.g. |Fix| after |Efficiency|).
    Changes not specific to a module should be listed under *Multiple Modules*
    or *Miscellaneous*.
    Entries should end with:

    where 123455 is the *pull request* number, not the issue number.

...................

- |Enhancement| :meth:`base.ClusterMixin.fit_predict` and

  passed to the ``fit`` method of the estimator.

- |Enhancement| :meth:`base.TransformerMixin.fit_transform` and

  ``predict`` consume metadata, but no custom ``fit_transform`` / ``fit_predict``
  is defined in the class inheriting from them correspondingly.

- |Enhancement| :func:`base.clone` now supports `dict` as input and creates a
  copy.

- |API|:func:`~utils.metadata_routing.process_routing` now has a different
  signature. The first two (the object and the method) are positional only,
  and all metadata are passed as keyword arguments.

..........................

- |Enhancement| The internal objective and gradient of the `sigmoid` method
  of :class:`calibration.CalibratedClassifierCV` have been replaced by the
  private loss module.

......................

- |Fix| The `degree` parameter in the :class:`cluster.SpectralClustering`
  constructor now accepts real values instead of only integral values in
  accordance with the `degree` parameter of the

- |Fix| Fixes a bug in :class:`cluster.OPTICS` where the cluster correction based
  on predecessor was not using the right indexing. It would lead to inconsistent results
  depedendent on the order of the data.

- |Fix| Improve error message when checking the number of connected components
  in the `fit` method of :class:`cluster.HDBSCAN`.

- |Fix| Create copy of precomputed sparse matrix within the
  `fit` method of :class:`cluster.DBSCAN` to avoid in-place modification of
  the sparse matrix.

- |Fix| Raises a proper `ValueError` when `metric="precomputed"` and requested storing
  centers via the parameter `store_centers`.

- |API| `kdtree` and `balltree` values are now deprecated and are renamed as
  `kd_tree` and `ball_tree` respectively for the `algorithm` parameter of

  `kdtree` and `balltree` values will be removed in 1.6.

- |API| The option `metric=None` in

  is deprecated in version 1.4 and will be removed in version 1.6. Use the default
  value instead.

......................

- |MajorFeature| Adds `polars <https://www.pola.rs>`__ input support to

  <https://data-apis.org/dataframe-protocol/latest/purpose_and_scope.html>`__.
  The minimum supported version for polars is `0.19.12`.

- |Fix| :func:`cluster.spectral_clustering` and :class:`cluster.SpectralClustering`
  now raise an explicit error message indicating that sparse matrices and arrays
  with `np.int64` indices are not supported.

- |API| outputs that use pandas extension dtypes and contain `pd.NA` in

  cause a `ValueError` in version 1.6, unless the output container has been
  configured as "pandas" with `set_output(transform="pandas")`. Before, such
  outputs resulted in numpy arrays of dtype `object` containing `pd.NA` which
  could not be converted to numpy floats and caused errors when passed to other
  scikit-learn estimators.

.........................

- |Enhancement| Allow :func:`covariance.shrunk_covariance` to process
  multiple covariance matrices at once by handling nd-arrays.

- |API| |FIX| :class:`~compose.ColumnTransformer` now replaces `"passthrough"`
  with a corresponding :class:`~preprocessing.FunctionTransformer` in the
  fitted ``transformers_`` attribute.

.......................

- |Enhancement| :func:`datasets.make_sparse_spd_matrix` now uses a more memory-
  efficient sparse layout. It also accepts a new keyword `sparse_format` that allows
  specifying the output format of the sparse matrix. By default `sparse_format=None`,
  which returns a dense numpy ndarray as before.

- |Fix| :func:`datasets.dump_svmlight_file` now does not raise `ValueError` when `X`
  is read-only, e.g., a `numpy.memmap` instance.

- |API| :func:`datasets.make_sparse_spd_matrix` deprecated the keyword argument ``dim``
  in favor of ``n_dim``. ``dim`` will be removed in version 1.6.

............................

- |Feature| :class:`decomposition.PCA` now supports :class:`scipy.sparse.sparray`
  and :class:`scipy.sparse.spmatrix` inputs when using the `arpack` solver.
  When used on sparse data like :func:`datasets.fetch_20newsgroups_vectorized` this
  can lead to speed-ups of 100x (single threaded) and 70x lower memory usage.
  Based on :user:`Alexander Tarashansky <atarashansky>`'s implementation in
  `scanpy <https://github.com/scverse/scanpy>`_.

- |Enhancement| An "auto" option was added to the `n_components` parameter of

  from W or H shapes when using a custom initialization. The default value of this
  parameter will change from `None` to `auto` in version 1.6.

- |Fix| :func:`decomposition.dict_learning_online` does not ignore anymore the parameter
  `max_iter`.

- |Fix| The `degree` parameter in the :class:`decomposition.KernelPCA`
  constructor now accepts real values instead of only integral values in
  accordance with the `degree` parameter of the

- |API| The option `max_iter=None` in

  version 1.6. Use the default value instead.

.......................

- |MajorFeature| :class:`ensemble.RandomForestClassifier` and

  the criterion is `gini`, `entropy`, or `log_loss`,
  for classification or `squared_error`, `friedman_mse`, or `poisson`
  for regression.

- |MajorFeature| :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier` and

  `categorical_features="from_dtype"`, which treats columns with Pandas or
  Polars Categorical dtype as categories in the algorithm.
  `categorical_features="from_dtype"` will become the default in v1.6.
  Categorical features no longer need to be encoded with numbers. When
  categorical features are numbers, the maximum value no longer needs to be
  smaller than `max_bins`; only the number of (unique) categories must be
  smaller than `max_bins`.

- |MajorFeature| :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier` and

  `max_features` to specify the proportion of randomly chosen features considered
  in each split.

- |Feature| :class:`ensemble.RandomForestClassifier`,

  and :class:`ensemble.ExtraTreesRegressor` now support monotonic constraints,
  useful when features are supposed to have a positive/negative effect on the target.
  Missing values in the train data and multi-output targets are not supported.

  initiated by :user:`Patrick O'Reilly <pat-oreilly>`.

- |Efficiency| :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier` and

  the parent node's histogram as children node's histogram in the subtraction trick.
  In effect, less memory has to be allocated and deallocated.

- |Efficiency| :class:`ensemble.GradientBoostingClassifier` is faster,
  for binary and in particular for multiclass problems thanks to the private loss
  function module.

- |Efficiency| Improves runtime and memory usage for

- |Efficiency| :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier` and

  is a predefined metric listed in :func:`metrics.get_scorer_names` and
  early stopping is enabled.

- |Enhancement| A fitted property, ``estimators_samples_``, was added to all Forest
  methods, including

  which allows to retrieve the training sample indices used for each tree estimator.

- |Fix| Fixes :class:`ensemble.IsolationForest` when the input is a sparse matrix and
  `contamination` is set to a float value.

- |Fix| Raises a `ValueError` in :class:`ensemble.RandomForestRegressor` and

  for the targets being all rounded to integer. It was recognized as a multiclass
  problem.

- |Fix| Changes estimator tags to acknowledge that

  support missing values if all `estimators` support missing values.

- |Fix| Support loading pickles of :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier` and

  been generated on a platform with a different bitness. A typical example is
  to train and pickle the model on 64 bit machine and load the model on a 32
  bit machine for prediction.

- |API| In :class:`ensemble.AdaBoostClassifier`, the `algorithm` argument `SAMME.R` was
  deprecated and will be removed in 1.6.

.................................

- |API| Changed error type from :class:`AttributeError` to

................................

- |Enhancement| :class:`feature_selection.SelectKBest`,

  feature selection by providing a `score_func` taking `X` and `y=None`.

- |Enhancement| :class:`feature_selection.SelectKBest` and

  now shows a warning when `k` is greater than the number of features.

- |Fix| :class:`feature_selection.RFE` and :class:`feature_selection.RFECV` do
  not check for nans during input validation.

.........................

- |Enhancement| :class:`inspection.DecisionBoundaryDisplay` now accepts a parameter
  `class_of_interest` to select the class of interest when plotting the response
  provided by `response_method="predict_proba"` or
  `response_method="decision_function"`. It allows to plot the decision boundary for
  both binary and multiclass classifiers.

- |Fix| :meth:`inspection.DecisionBoundaryDisplay.from_estimator` and

  type for subclasses.

- |API| :class:`inspection.DecisionBoundaryDisplay` raise an `AttributeError` instead
  of a `ValueError` when an estimator does not implement the requested response method.

...........................

- |Fix| The `degree` parameter in the :class:`kernel_ridge.KernelRidge`
  constructor now accepts real values instead of only integral values in
  accordance with the `degree` parameter of the

...........................

- |Efficiency| :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegression` and

  solvers `"lbfgs"` and `"newton-cg"`. Both solvers can now reach much higher precision
  for the coefficients depending on the specified `tol`. Additionally, lbfgs can
  make better use of `tol`, i.e., stop sooner or reach higher precision. This is
  accomplished by better scaling of the objective function, i.e., using average per
  sample losses instead of sum of per sample losses.

- |Efficiency| :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegression` and

  considerably faster for some data and parameter settings. This is accomplished by a
  better line search convergence check for negligible loss improvements that takes into
  account gradient information.

- |Efficiency| Solver `"newton-cg"` in :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegression` and

  proportional to the number of coefficients (`n_features * n_classes`).

- |Fix| Ensure that the `sigma_` attribute of

  always has a `float32` dtype when fitted on `float32` data, even with the
  type promotion rules of NumPy 2.

- |API| The attribute `loss_function_` of :class:`linear_model.SGDClassifier` and

  version 1.6.

......................

- |Efficiency| Computing pairwise distances via :class:`metrics.DistanceMetric`
  for CSR x CSR,  Dense x CSR, and CSR x Dense datasets is now 1.5x faster.

- |Efficiency| Computing distances via :class:`metrics.DistanceMetric`
  for CSR x CSR, Dense x CSR, and CSR x Dense now uses ~50% less memory,
  and outputs distances in the same dtype as the provided data.

- |Enhancement| Improve the rendering of the plot obtained with the

  classes. the x- and y-axis limits are set to [0, 1] and the aspect ratio between
  both axis is set to be 1 to get a square plot.

- |Enhancement| Added `neg_root_mean_squared_log_error_scorer` as scorer

- |Enhancement| :func:`metrics.confusion_matrix` now warns when only one label was
  found in `y_true` and `y_pred`.

- |Fix| computing pairwise distances with :func:`metrics.pairwise.euclidean_distances`
  no longer raises an exception when `X` is provided as a `float64` array and
  `X_norm_squared` as a `float32` array.

- |Fix| :func:`f1_score` now provides correct values when handling various
  cases in which division by zero occurs by using a formulation that does not
  depend on the precision and recall values.

- |Fix| :func:`metrics.make_scorer` now raises an error when using a regressor on a
  scorer requesting a non-thresholded decision function (from `decision_function` or
  `predict_proba`). Such scorer are specific to classification.

- |Fix| :meth:`metrics.DetCurveDisplay.from_predictions`,

  for subclasses.

- |API| Deprecated `needs_threshold` and `needs_proba` from :func:`metrics.make_scorer`.
  These parameters will be removed in version 1.6. Instead, use `response_method` that
  accepts `"predict"`, `"predict_proba"` or `"decision_function"` or a list of such
  values. `needs_proba=True` is equivalent to `response_method="predict_proba"` and
  `needs_threshold=True` is equivalent to
  `response_method=("decision_function", "predict_proba")`.

- |API| The `squared` parameter of :func:`metrics.mean_squared_error` and

  Use the new functions :func:`metrics.root_mean_squared_error` and

..............................

- |Enhancement| :func:`model_selection.learning_curve` raises a warning when
  every cross validation fold fails.

- |Fix| :class:`model_selection.GridSearchCV`,

  object in the parameter grid if it's an estimator.

..........................

- |Enhancement| Add method `predict_log_proba` to :class:`multioutput.ClassifierChain`.

........................

- |Efficiency| :meth:`sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsRegressor.predict` and

  pairs of dense and sparse datasets.

- |Efficiency| The performance of :meth:`neighbors.RadiusNeighborsClassifier.predict`
  and of :meth:`neighbors.RadiusNeighborsClassifier.predict_proba` has been improved
  when `radius` is large and `algorithm="brute"` with non-Euclidean metrics.

- |Fix| Improve error message for :class:`neighbors.LocalOutlierFactor`
  when it is invoked with `n_samples=n_neighbors`.

- |Fix| :meth:`neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier.predict` and

  weights of all neighbors of some sample are zero. This can happen when `weights`
  is a user-defined function.

- |API| :class:`neighbors.KNeighborsRegressor` now accepts

  argument allowing for the use of accelerated third-party

............................

- |Efficiency| :class:`preprocessing.OrdinalEncoder` avoids calculating
  missing indices twice to improve efficiency.

- |Efficiency| Improves efficiency in :class:`preprocessing.OneHotEncoder` and

- |Enhancement| Improves warnings in :class:`preprocessing.FunctionTransformer` when
  `func` returns a pandas dataframe and the output is configured to be pandas.

- |Enhancement| :class:`preprocessing.TargetEncoder` now supports `target_type`
  'multiclass'.

- |Fix| :class:`preprocessing.OneHotEncoder` and :class:`preprocessing.OrdinalEncoder`
  raise an exception when `nan` is a category and is not the last in the user's
  provided categories.

- |Fix| :class:`preprocessing.OneHotEncoder` and :class:`preprocessing.OrdinalEncoder`
  raise an exception if the user provided categories contain duplicates.

- |Fix| :class:`preprocessing.FunctionTransformer` raises an error at `transform` if
  the output of `get_feature_names_out` is not consistent with the column names of the
  output container if those are defined.

- |Fix| Raise a `NotFittedError` in :class:`preprocessing.OrdinalEncoder` when calling
  `transform` without calling `fit` since `categories` always requires to be checked.

...................

- |Feature| :class:`tree.DecisionTreeClassifier`, :class:`tree.DecisionTreeRegressor`,

  monotonic constraints, useful when features are supposed to have a positive/negative
  effect on the target. Missing values in the train data and multi-output targets are
  not supported.

....................

- |Enhancement| :func:`sklearn.utils.estimator_html_repr` dynamically adapts
  diagram colors based on the browser's `prefers-color-scheme`, providing
  improved adaptability to dark mode environments.

  Jalali`_.

- |Enhancement| :class:`~utils.metadata_routing.MetadataRequest` and

  which can be used to check whether a given set of parameters would be consumed.

- |Enhancement| Make :func:`sklearn.utils.check_array` attempt to output
  `int32`-indexed CSR and COO arrays when converting from DIA arrays if the number of
  non-zero entries is small enough. This ensures that estimators implemented in Cython
  and that do not accept `int64`-indexed sparse datastucture, now consistently
  accept the same sparse input formats for SciPy sparse matrices and arrays.

- |Fix| :func:`sklearn.utils.check_array` should accept both matrix and array from
  the sparse SciPy module. The previous implementation would fail if `copy=True` by
  calling specific NumPy `np.may_share_memory` that does not work with SciPy sparse
  array and does not return the correct result for SciPy sparse matrix.

- |Fix| :func:`~utils.estimator_checks.check_estimators_pickle` with
  `readonly_memmap=True` now relies on joblib's own capability to allocate
  aligned memory mapped arrays when loading a serialized estimator instead of
  calling a dedicated private function that would crash when OpenBLAS
  misdetects the CPU architecture.

- |Fix| Error message in :func:`~utils.check_array` when a sparse matrix was
  passed but `accept_sparse` is `False` now suggests to use `.toarray()` and not
  `X.toarray()`.

- |Fix| Fix the function :func:`~utils.check_array` to output the right error message
  when the input is a Series instead of a DataFrame.

- |API| :func:`sklearn.extmath.log_logistic` is deprecated and will be removed in 1.6.
  Use `-np.logaddexp(0, -x)` instead.

Code and Documentation Contributors
-----------------------------------

Thanks to everyone who has contributed to the maintenance and improvement of
the project since version 1.3, including:

101AlexMartin, Abhishek Singh Kushwah, Adam Li, Adarsh Wase, Adrin Jalali,
Advik Sinha, Alex, Alexander Al-Feghali, Alexis IMBERT, AlexL, Alex Molas, Anam
Fatima, Andrew Goh, andyscanzio, Aniket Patil, Artem Kislovskiy, Arturo Amor,
ashah002, avm19, Ben Holmes, Ben Mares, Benoit Chevallier-Mames, Bharat
Raghunathan, Binesh Bannerjee, Brendan Lu, Brevin Kunde, Camille Troillard,
Carlo Lemos, Chad Parmet, Christian Clauss, Christian Lorentzen, Christian
Veenhuis, Christos Aridas, Cindy Liang, Claudio Salvatore Arcidiacono, Connor
Boyle, cynthias13w, DaminK, Daniele Ongari, Daniel Schmitz, Daniel Tinoco,
David Brochart, Deborah L. Haar, DevanshKyada27, Dimitri Papadopoulos Orfanos,
Dmitry Nesterov, DUONG, Edoardo Abati, Eitan Hemed, Elabonga Atuo, Elisabeth
Günther, Emma Carballal, Emmanuel Ferdman, epimorphic, Erwan Le Floch, Fabian
Egli, Filip Karlo Došilović, Florian Idelberger, Franck Charras, Gael
Varoquaux, Ganesh Tata, Gleb Levitski, Guillaume Lemaitre, Haoying Zhang,
Harmanan Kohli, Ily, ioangatop, IsaacTrost, Isaac Virshup, Iwona Zdzieblo,
Jakub Kaczmarzyk, James McDermott, Jarrod Millman, JB Mountford, Jérémie du
Boisberranger, Jérôme Dockès, Jiawei Zhang, Joel Nothman, John Cant, John
Hopfensperger, Jona Sassenhagen, Jon Nordby, Julien Jerphanion, Kennedy Waweru,
kevin moore, Kian Eliasi, Kishan Ved, Konstantinos Pitas, Koustav Ghosh, Kushan
Sharma, ldwy4, Linus, Lohit SundaramahaLingam, Loic Esteve, Lorenz, Louis
Fouquet, Lucy Liu, Luis Silvestrin, Lukáš Folwarczný, Lukas Geiger, Malte
Londschien, Marcus Fraaß, Marek Hanuš, Maren Westermann, Mark Elliot, Martin
Larralde, Mateusz Sokół, mathurinm, mecopur, Meekail Zain, Michael Higgins,
Miki Watanabe, Milton Gomez, MN193, Mohammed Hamdy, Mohit Joshi, mrastgoo,
Naman Dhingra, Naoise Holohan, Narendra Singh dangi, Noa Malem-Shinitski,
Nolan, Nurseit Kamchyev, Oleksii Kachaiev, Olivier Grisel, Omar Salman, partev,
Peter Hull, Peter Steinbach, Pierre de Fréminville, Pooja Subramaniam, Puneeth
K, qmarcou, Quentin Barthélemy, Rahil Parikh, Rahul Mahajan, Raj Pulapakura,
Raphael, Ricardo Peres, Riccardo Cappuzzo, Roman Lutz, Salim Dohri, Samuel O.
Ronsin, Sandip Dutta, Sayed Qaiser Ali, scaja, scikit-learn-bot, Sebastian
Berg, Shreesha Kumar Bhat, Shubhal Gupta, Søren Fuglede Jørgensen, Stefanie
Senger, Tamara, Tanjina Afroj, THARAK HEGDE, thebabush, Thomas J. Fan, Thomas
Roehr, Tialo, Tim Head, tongyu, Venkatachalam N, Vijeth Moudgalya, Vincent M,
Vivek Reddy P, Vladimir Fokow, Xiao Yuan, Xuefeng Xu, Yang Tao, Yao Xiao,
Yuchen Zhou, Yuusuke Hiramatsu
