.. _changes_0_24_2:

Version 0.24.2
==============

**April 2021**

Changelog
---------

......................

- |Fix| `compose.ColumnTransformer.get_feature_names` does not call
  `get_feature_names` on transformers with an empty column selection.

..................................

- |Fix| Fixed a regression in :class:`cross_decomposition.CCA`. :pr:`19646`
  by `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Fix| :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSRegression` raises warning for
  constant y residuals instead of a `StopIteration` error. :pr:`19922`
  by `Thomas Fan`_.

............................

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in :class:`decomposition.KernelPCA`'s
  ``inverse_transform``.  :pr:`19732` by :user:`Kei Ishikawa <kstoneriv3>`.

.......................

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingRegressor` `fit`
  with `sample_weight` parameter and `least_absolute_deviation` loss function.

.........................

- |Fix| Fixed a bug to support multiple strings for a category when
  `sparse=False` in :class:`feature_extraction.DictVectorizer`.

...............................

- |Fix| Avoid explicitly forming inverse covariance matrix in

  standard deviation. With certain covariance matrices this inverse is unstable
  to compute explicitly. Calling Cholesky solver mitigates this issue in
  computation.

- |Fix| Avoid division by zero when scaling constant target in

  equal to 0. Now, such case is detected and the std. dev. is affected to 1
  avoiding a division by zero and thus the presence of NaN values in the
  normalized target.

  and :user:`Alexandr Fonari <afonari>`.

...........................

- |Fix|: Fixed a bug in :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegression`: the
  sample_weight object is not modified anymore. :pr:`19182` by

......................

- |Fix| :func:`metrics.top_k_accuracy_score` now supports multiclass
  problems where only two classes appear in `y_true` and all the classes
  are specified in `labels`.

..............................

- |Fix| :class:`model_selection.RandomizedSearchCV` and

  single metrics and verbose > 2. :pr:`19659` by `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Fix| Some values in the `cv_results_` attribute of

  numpy arrays. :pr:`19211` by `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |Fix| The `fit` method of the successive halving parameter search
  (:class:`model_selection.HalvingGridSearchCV`, and

  `groups` parameter. :pr:`19847` by :user:`Xiaoyu Chai <xiaoyuchai>`.

..........................

- |Fix| :class:`multioutput.MultiOutputRegressor` now works with estimators
  that dynamically define `predict` during fitting, such as

............................

- |Fix| Validate the constructor parameter `handle_unknown` in

  `'use_encoded_value'` strategies.

- |Fix| Fix encoder categories having dtype='S'

- |Fix| :meth:`preprocessing.OrdinalEncoder.transfrom` correctly handles
  unknown values for string dtypes. :pr:`19888` by `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Fix| :meth:`preprocessing.OneHotEncoder.fit` no longer alters the `drop`
  parameter. :pr:`19924` by `Thomas Fan`_.

..............................

- |Fix| Avoid NaN during label propagation in

...................

- |Fix| Fix a bug in `fit` of :class:`tree.BaseDecisionTree` that caused
  segmentation faults under certain conditions. `fit` now deep copies the
  `Criterion` object to prevent shared concurrent accesses.

....................

- |Fix| Better contains the CSS provided by :func:`utils.estimator_html_repr`
  by giving CSS ids to the html representation. :pr:`19417` by `Thomas Fan`_.

.. _changes_0_24_1:

Version 0.24.1
==============

**January 2021**

Packaging
---------

The 0.24.0 scikit-learn wheels were not working with MacOS <1.15 due to
`libomp`. The version of `libomp` used to build the wheels was too recent for
older macOS versions. This issue has been fixed for 0.24.1 scikit-learn wheels.
Scikit-learn wheels published on PyPI.org now officially support macOS 10.13
and later.

Changelog
---------

......................

- |Fix| Fix numerical stability bug that could happen in

..............................

- |Fix| :class:`semi_supervised.SelfTrainingClassifier` is now accepting
  meta-estimator (e.g. :class:`ensemble.StackingClassifier`). The validation
  of this estimator is done on the fitted estimator, once we know the existence
  of the method `predict_proba`.

.. _changes_0_24:

Version 0.24.0
==============

**December 2020**

For a short description of the main highlights of the release, please
refer to

Put the changes in their relevant module.

Changed models
--------------

The following estimators and functions, when fit with the same data and
parameters, may produce different models from the previous version. This often
occurs due to changes in the modelling logic (bug fixes or enhancements), or in
random sampling procedures.

- |Fix| :class:`decomposition.KernelPCA` behaviour is now more consistent
  between 32-bits and 64-bits data when the kernel has small positive
  eigenvalues.

- |Fix| :class:`decomposition.TruncatedSVD` becomes deterministic by exposing
  a `random_state` parameter.

- |Fix| :class:`linear_model.Perceptron` when `penalty='elasticnet'`.

- |Fix| Change in the random sampling procedures for the center initialization
  of :class:`cluster.KMeans`.

Details are listed in the changelog below.

(While we are trying to better inform users by providing this information, we
cannot assure that this list is complete.)

Changelog
---------

...................

- |Fix| :meth:`base.BaseEstimator.get_params` now will raise an
  `AttributeError` if a parameter cannot be retrieved as
  an instance attribute. Previously it would return `None`.

..........................

- |Efficiency| :class:`calibration.CalibratedClassifierCV.fit` now supports
  parallelization via `joblib.Parallel` using argument `n_jobs`.

- |Enhancement| Allow :class:`calibration.CalibratedClassifierCV` use with
  prefit :class:`pipeline.Pipeline` where data is not `X` is not array-like,
  sparse matrix or dataframe at the start. :pr:`17546` by

- |Enhancement| Add `ensemble` parameter to

  of calibration via an ensemble of calibrators (current method) or
  just one calibrator using all the data (similar to the built-in feature of

......................

- |Enhancement| :class:`cluster.AgglomerativeClustering` has a new parameter
  `compute_distances`. When set to `True`, distances between clusters are
  computed and stored in the `distances_` attribute even when the parameter
  `distance_threshold` is not used. This new parameter is useful to produce
  dendrogram visualizations, but introduces a computational and memory
  overhead. :pr:`17984` by :user:`Michael Riedmann <mriedmann>`,

- |Enhancement| :class:`cluster.SpectralClustering` and

  When set to `True`, additional messages will be displayed which can aid with
  debugging. :pr:`18052` by :user:`Sean O. Stalley <sstalley>`.

- |Enhancement| Added :func:`cluster.kmeans_plusplus` as public function.
  Initialization by KMeans++ can now be called separately to generate
  initial cluster centroids. :pr:`17937` by :user:`g-walsh`

- |API| :class:`cluster.MiniBatchKMeans` attributes, `counts_` and
  `init_size_`, are deprecated and will be removed in 1.1 (renaming of 0.26).

......................

- |Fix| :class:`compose.ColumnTransformer` will skip transformers the
  column selector is a list of bools that are False. :pr:`17616` by
  `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Fix| :class:`compose.ColumnTransformer` now displays the remainder in the
  diagram display. :pr:`18167` by `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Fix| :class:`compose.ColumnTransformer` enforces strict count and order
  of column names between `fit` and `transform` by raising an error instead
  of a warning, following the deprecation cycle.

.........................

- |API| Deprecates `cv_alphas_` in favor of `cv_results_['alphas']` and
  `grid_scores_` in favor of split scores in `cv_results_` in

  removed in version 1.1 (renaming of 0.26).

..................................

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSSVD` which would
  sometimes return components in the reversed order of importance.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSSVD`,

  predictions for `est.transform(Y)` when the training data is single-target.

- |Fix| Increases the stability of :class:`cross_decomposition.CCA` :pr:`18746`
  by `Thomas Fan`_.

- |API| For :class:`cross_decomposition.NMF`,
  the `init` value, when 'init=None' and
  n_components <= min(n_samples, n_features) will be changed from
  `'nndsvd'` to `'nndsvda'` in 1.1 (renaming of 0.26).

- |API| The bounds of the `n_components` parameter is now restricted:

  - into `[1, min(n_samples, n_features, n_targets)]`, for

    and :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSCanonical`.
  - into `[1, n_features]` or :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSRegression`.

  An error will be raised in 1.1 (renaming of 0.26).

- |API| For :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSSVD`,

  attributes were deprecated and will be removed in 1.1 (renaming of 0.26).
  They can be retrieved by calling `transform` on the training data.
  The `norm_y_weights` attribute will also be removed.

- |API| For :class:`cross_decomposition.PLSRegression`,

  `y_std_` attributes were deprecated and will be removed in 1.1
  (renaming of 0.26).

- |Fix| :class:`decomposition.TruncatedSVD` becomes deterministic by using the
  `random_state`. It controls the weights' initialization of the underlying
  ARPACK solver.

.......................

- |Feature| :func:`datasets.fetch_openml` now validates md5 checksum of arff
  files downloaded or cached to ensure data integrity.

- |Enhancement| :func:`datasets.fetch_openml` now allows argument `as_frame`
  to be 'auto', which tries to convert returned data to pandas DataFrame
  unless data is sparse.

- |Enhancement| :func:`datasets.fetch_covtype` now supports the optional
  argument `as_frame`; when it is set to True, the returned Bunch object's
  `data` and `frame` members are pandas DataFrames, and the `target` member is
  a pandas Series.

- |Enhancement| :func:`datasets.fetch_kddcup99` now supports the optional
  argument `as_frame`; when it is set to True, the returned Bunch object's
  `data` and `frame` members are pandas DataFrames, and the `target` member is
  a pandas Series.

  `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- |Enhancement| :func:`datasets.fetch_20newsgroups_vectorized` now supports
  loading as a pandas ``DataFrame`` by setting ``as_frame=True``.

  `Guillaume Lemaitre`_.

- |API| The default value of `as_frame` in :func:`datasets.fetch_openml` is
  changed from False to 'auto'.

............................

- |Enhancement| :func:`decomposition.FactorAnalysis` now supports the optional
  argument `rotation`, which can take the value `None`, `'varimax'` or
  `'quartimax'`. :pr:`11064` by :user:`Jona Sassenhagen <jona-sassenhagen>`.

- |Enhancement| :class:`decomposition.NMF` now supports the optional parameter
  `regularization`, which can take the values `None`, 'components',
  'transformation' or 'both', in accordance with

- |Fix| :class:`decomposition.KernelPCA` behaviour is now more consistent
  between 32-bits and 64-bits data input when the kernel has small positive
  eigenvalues. Small positive eigenvalues were not correctly discarded for
  32-bits data.

- |Fix| Fix :class:`decomposition.SparseCoder` such that it follows
  scikit-learn API and support cloning. The attribute `components_` is
  deprecated in 0.24 and will be removed in 1.1 (renaming of 0.26).
  This attribute was redundant with the `dictionary` attribute and constructor
  parameter.

- |Fix| :meth:`TruncatedSVD.fit_transform` consistently returns the same
  as :meth:`TruncatedSVD.fit` followed by :meth:`TruncatedSVD.transform`.

....................................

- |Enhancement| :class:`discriminant_analysis.LinearDiscriminantAnalysis` can
  now use custom covariance estimate by setting the `covariance_estimator`
  parameter. :pr:`14446` by :user:`Hugo Richard <hugorichard>`.

.......................

- |MajorFeature| :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingRegressor` and

  support for categorical features with the `categorical_features`
  parameter. :pr:`18394` by `Nicolas Hug`_ and `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Feature| :class:`ensemble.HistGradientBoostingRegressor` and

  method `staged_predict`, which allows monitoring of each stage.

- |Efficiency| break cyclic references in the tree nodes used internally in

  garbage collection of large intermediate datastructures and to improve memory
  usage in `fit`. :pr:`18334` by `Olivier Grisel`_ `Nicolas Hug`_, `Thomas
  Fan`_ and `Andreas Müller`_.

- |Efficiency| Histogram initialization is now done in parallel in

  improvement for problems that build a lot of nodes on multicore machines.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in

  with `uint8` dtype in `predict`. :pr:`18410` by `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |API| The parameter ``n_classes_`` is now deprecated in

- |API| Mean absolute error ('mae') is now deprecated for the parameter
  ``criterion`` in :class:`ensemble.GradientBoostingRegressor` and

.........................

- |API| :class:`exceptions.ChangedBehaviorWarning` and

  1.1 (renaming of 0.26).

.................................

- |Enhancement| :class:`feature_extraction.DictVectorizer` accepts multiple
  values for one categorical feature. :pr:`17367` by :user:`Peng Yu <yupbank>`
  and :user:`Chiara Marmo <cmarmo>`.

- |Fix| :class:`feature_extraction.CountVectorizer` raises an issue if a
  custom token pattern which capture more than one group is provided.

................................

- |Feature| Added :class:`feature_selection.SequentialFeatureSelector`
  which implements forward and backward sequential feature selection.

- |Feature| A new parameter `importance_getter` was added to

  attribute name/path or a `callable` for extracting feature importance from
  the estimator.  :pr:`15361` by :user:`Venkatachalam N <venkyyuvy>`.

- |Efficiency| Reduce memory footprint in

  and :func:`feature_selection.mutual_info_regression` by calling

- |Enhancement| :class:`feature_selection.RFE` supports the option for the
  number of `n_features_to_select` to be given as a float representing the
  percentage of features to select.

...............................

- |Enhancement| A new method

  fitting a Gaussian Process and raises a ``ConvergenceWarning`` if the bounds
  of the hyperparameters are too tight.

.....................

- |Feature| :class:`impute.SimpleImputer` now supports a list of strings
  when ``strategy='most_frequent'`` or ``strategy='constant'``.

- |Feature| Added method :meth:`impute.SimpleImputer.inverse_transform` to
  revert imputed data to original when instantiated with
  ``add_indicator=True``. :pr:`17612` by :user:`Srimukh Sripada <d3b0unce>`.

- |Fix| replace the default values in :class:`impute.IterativeImputer`
  of `min_value` and `max_value` parameters to `-np.inf` and `np.inf`,
  respectively instead of `None`. However, the behaviour of the class does not
  change since `None` was defaulting to these values already.

- |Fix| :class:`impute.IterativeImputer` will not attempt to set the
  estimator's `random_state` attribute, allowing to use it with more external classes.

- |Efficiency| :class:`impute.SimpleImputer` is now faster with `object` dtype array.
  when `strategy='most_frequent'` in :class:`~sklearn.impute.SimpleImputer`.

.........................

- |Feature| :func:`inspection.partial_dependence` and

  plotting Individual Conditional Expectation (ICE) curves controlled by the
  ``kind`` parameter.

- |Feature| Add `sample_weight` parameter to

- |API| Positional arguments are deprecated in

  (renaming of 0.26).

.......................

- |Feature| Expose fitted attributes ``X_thresholds_`` and ``y_thresholds_``
  that hold the de-duplicated interpolation thresholds of an

- |Enhancement| :class:`isotonic.IsotonicRegression` now accepts 2d array with
  1 feature as input array. :pr:`17379` by :user:`Jiaxiang <fujiaxiang>`.

- |Fix| Add tolerance when determining duplicate X values to prevent
  inf values from being predicted by :class:`isotonic.IsotonicRegression`.

...................................

- |Feature| Added class :class:`kernel_approximation.PolynomialCountSketch`
  which implements the Tensor Sketch algorithm for polynomial kernel feature
  map approximation.

- |Efficiency| :class:`kernel_approximation.Nystroem` now supports
  parallelization via `joblib.Parallel` using argument `n_jobs`.

...........................

- |Feature| :class:`linear_model.LinearRegression` now forces coefficients
  to be all positive when ``positive`` is set to ``True``.

- |Enhancement| :class:`linear_model.RidgeCV` now supports finding an optimal
  regularization value `alpha` for each target separately by setting
  ``alpha_per_target=True``. This is only supported when using the default
  efficient leave-one-out cross-validation scheme ``cv=None``. :pr:`6624` by

- |Fix| Fixes bug in :class:`linear_model.TheilSenRegressor` where
  `predict` and `score` would fail when `fit_intercept=False` and there was
  one feature during fitting. :pr:`18121` by `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Fix| Fixes bug in :class:`linear_model.ARDRegression` where `predict`
  was raising an error when `normalize=True` and `return_std=True` because
  `X_offset_` and `X_scale_` were undefined.

- |Fix| Added the missing `l1_ratio` parameter in

  This changes the default from 0 to 0.15. :pr:`18622` by

.......................

- |Efficiency| Fixed :issue:`10493`. Improve Local Linear Embedding (LLE)
  that raised `MemoryError` exception when used with large inputs.

- |Enhancement| Add `square_distances` parameter to :class:`manifold.TSNE`,
  which provides backward compatibility during deprecation of legacy squaring
  behavior. Distances will be squared by default in 1.1 (renaming of 0.26),
  and this parameter will be removed in 1.3. :pr:`17662` by

- |Fix| :class:`manifold.MDS` now correctly sets its `_pairwise` attribute.

......................

- |Feature| Added :func:`metrics.cluster.pair_confusion_matrix` implementing
  the confusion matrix arising from pairs of elements from two clusterings.

- |Feature| new metric :func:`metrics.top_k_accuracy_score`. It's a
  generalization of :func:`metrics.top_k_accuracy_score`, the difference is
  that a prediction is considered correct as long as the true label is
  associated with one of the `k` highest predicted scores.

- |Feature| Added :func:`metrics.det_curve` to compute Detection Error Tradeoff
  curve classification metric.

- |Feature| Added :func:`metrics.plot_det_curve` and

- |Feature| Added :func:`metrics.mean_absolute_percentage_error` metric and
  the associated scorer for regression problems. :issue:`10708` fixed with the
  PR :pr:`15007` by :user:`Ashutosh Hathidara <ashutosh1919>`. The scorer and
  some practical test cases were taken from PR :pr:`10711` by

- |Feature| Added :func:`metrics.rand_score` implementing the (unadjusted)
  Rand index.

- |Feature| :func:`metrics.plot_confusion_matrix` now supports making colorbar
  optional in the matplotlib plot by setting `colorbar=False`. :pr:`17192` by

- |Feature| :func:`metrics.plot_confusion_matrix` now supports making colorbar
  optional in the matplotlib plot by setting colorbar=False. :pr:`17192` by

- |Enhancement| Add `sample_weight` parameter to

- |Enhancement| Add `pos_label` parameter in

  class to be used when computing the precision and recall statistics.

- |Enhancement| Add `pos_label` parameter in

  class to be used when computing the roc auc statistics.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in

  when called with `output_dict=True` for 0-length values.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in

  when called with `output_dict=True` for 0-length values.

- |Fix| Fixed a bug in

  parameter when called with no true or predicted samples.

- |Fix| bug in :func:`metrics.hinge_loss` where error occurs when
  ``y_true`` is missing some labels that are provided explicitly in the
  ``labels`` parameter.

- |Fix| Fix scorers that accept a pos_label parameter and compute their metrics
  from values returned by `decision_function` or `predict_proba`. Previously,
  they would return erroneous values when pos_label was not corresponding to
  `classifier.classes_[1]`. This is especially important when training
  classifiers directly with string labeled target classes.

- |Fix| Fixed bug in :func:`metrics.plot_confusion_matrix` where error occurs
  when `y_true` contains labels that were not previously seen by the classifier
  while the `labels` and `display_labels` parameters are set to `None`.

..............................

- |MajorFeature| Added (experimental) parameter search estimators

  Halving, and can be used as a drop-in replacements for

  Nothman`_ and `Andreas Müller`_.

- |Feature| :class:`model_selection.RandomizedSearchCV` and

- |Enhancement| :class:`model_selection.TimeSeriesSplit` has two new keyword
  arguments `test_size` and `gap`. `test_size` allows the out-of-sample
  time series length to be fixed for all folds. `gap` removes a fixed number of
  samples between the train and test set on each fold.

- |Enhancement| :func:`model_selection.permutation_test_score` and

  to pass additional estimator parameters.

- |Enhancement| :func:`model_selection.cross_val_score`,

  and replace the score with `error_score`. If `error_score="raise"`, the error
  will be raised.

- |Enhancement| :func:`model_selection.learning_curve` now accept fit_params
  to pass additional estimator parameters.

- |Fix| Fixed the `len` of :class:`model_selection.ParameterSampler` when
  all distributions are lists and `n_iter` is more than the number of unique
  parameter combinations. :pr:`18222` by `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |Fix| A fix to raise warning when one or more CV splits of

- |Enhancement| :class:`model_selection.GridSearchCV`,

  returning a dictionary of of multiple metric names/values association.

.........................

- |Enhancement| :class:`multiclass.OneVsOneClassifier` now accepts
  the inputs with missing values. Hence, estimators which can handle
  missing values (may be a pipeline with imputation step) can be used as
  a estimator for multiclass wrappers.

- |Fix| A fix to allow :class:`multiclass.OutputCodeClassifier` to accept
  sparse input data in its `fit` and `predict` methods. The check for
  validity of the input is now delegated to the base estimator.

..........................

- |Enhancement| :class:`multioutput.MultiOutputClassifier` and

  with missing values. Hence, estimators which can handle missing
  values (may be a pipeline with imputation step, HistGradientBoosting
  estimators) can be used as a estimator for multiclass wrappers.

- |Fix| A fix to accept tuples for the ``order`` parameter
  in :class:`multioutput.ClassifierChain`.

..........................

- |Enhancement| Adds a parameter `min_categories` to

  per feature to be specified. This allows categories unseen during training
  to be accounted for.

- |API| The attributes ``coef_`` and ``intercept_`` are now deprecated in

  and will be removed in v1.1 (renaming of 0.26).

........................

- |Efficiency| Speed up ``seuclidean``, ``wminkowski``, ``mahalanobis`` and
  ``haversine`` metrics in :class:`neighbors.DistanceMetric` by avoiding
  unexpected GIL acquiring in Cython when setting ``n_jobs>1`` in

  and by validating data out of loops.

- |Efficiency| :class:`neighbors.NeighborsBase` benefits of an improved
  `algorithm = 'auto'` heuristic. In addition to the previous set of rules,
  now, when the number of features exceeds 15, `brute` is selected, assuming
  the data intrinsic dimensionality is too high for tree-based methods.

- |Fix| :class:`neighbors.BinaryTree`
  will raise a `ValueError` when fitting on data array having points with
  different dimensions.

- |Fix| :class:`neighbors.NearestCentroid` with a numerical `shrink_threshold`
  will raise a `ValueError` when fitting on data with all constant features.

- |Fix| In  methods `radius_neighbors` and
  `radius_neighbors_graph` of :class:`neighbors.NearestNeighbors`,

  correctly sorts the results even when fitting with the "brute" algorithm.

.............................

- |Efficiency| Neural net training and prediction are now a little faster.

- |Enhancement| Avoid converting float32 input to float64 in

- |Enhancement| Support 32-bit computations in

- |Fix| Fix method  :func:`fit` of :class:`neural_network.MLPClassifier`
  not iterating to ``max_iter`` if warm started.

.......................

- |Enhancement| References to transformers passed through ``transformer_weights``
  to :class:`pipeline.FeatureUnion` that aren't present in ``transformer_list``
  will raise a ``ValueError``.

- |Fix| A slice of a :class:`pipeline.Pipeline` now inherits the parameters of
  the original pipeline (`memory` and `verbose`).

............................

- |Feature| :class:`preprocessing.OneHotEncoder` now supports missing
  values by treating them as a category. :pr:`17317` by `Thomas Fan`_.

- |Feature| Add a new ``handle_unknown`` parameter with a
  ``use_encoded_value`` option, along with a new ``unknown_value`` parameter,
  to :class:`preprocessing.OrdinalEncoder` to allow unknown categories during
  transform and set the encoded value of the unknown categories.

  `Nicolas Hug`_.

- |Feature| Add ``clip`` parameter to :class:`preprocessing.MinMaxScaler`,
  which clips the transformed values of test data to ``feature_range``.

- |Feature| Add ``sample_weight`` parameter to

  individual weights for each sample. :pr:`18510` and

  and :user:`panpiort8` and :user:`Alex Gramfort <agramfort>`.

- |Enhancement| Verbose output of :class:`model_selection.GridSearchCV` has
  been improved for readability. :pr:`16935` by :user:`Raghav Rajagopalan
  <raghavrv>` and :user:`Chiara Marmo <cmarmo>`.

- |Enhancement| Add ``unit_variance`` to :class:`preprocessing.RobustScaler`,
  which scales output data such that normally distributed features have a
  variance of 1. :pr:`17193` by :user:`Lucy Liu <lucyleeow>` and

- |Enhancement| Add `dtype` parameter to

- |Fix| Raise error on

  when `handle_unknown='error'` and `drop=None` for samples
  encoded as all zeros. :pr:`14982` by

..............................

- |MajorFeature| Added :class:`semi_supervised.SelfTrainingClassifier`, a
  meta-classifier that allows any supervised classifier to function as a
  semi-supervised classifier that can learn from unlabeled data. :issue:`11682`
  by :user:`Oliver Rausch <orausch>` and :user:`Patrice Becker <pr0duktiv>`.

- |Fix| Fix incorrect encoding when using unicode string dtypes in

..................

- |Enhancement| invoke SciPy BLAS API for SVM kernel function in ``fit``,
  ``predict`` and related methods of :class:`svm.SVC`, :class:`svm.NuSVC`,

...................

- |Feature| :class:`tree.DecisionTreeRegressor` now supports the new splitting
  criterion ``'poisson'`` useful for modeling count data. :pr:`17386` by

- |Enhancement| :func:`tree.plot_tree` now uses colors from the matplotlib
  configuration settings. :pr:`17187` by `Andreas Müller`_.

- |API| The parameter ``X_idx_sorted`` is now deprecated in

....................

- |Enhancement| Add ``check_methods_sample_order_invariance`` to

  estimator methods are invariant if applied to the same dataset
  with different sample order :pr:`17598` by :user:`Jason Ngo <ngojason9>`.

- |Enhancement| Add support for weights in

  By :user:`Maria Telenczuk <maikia>` and :user:`Alex Gramfort <agramfort>`.

- |Fix| Raise ValueError with clear error message in :func:`check_array`
  for sparse DataFrames with mixed types.

- |Fix| Allow serialized tree based models to be unpickled on a machine
  with different endianness.

- |Fix| Check that we raise proper error when axis=1 and the
  dimensions do not match in :func:`utils.sparse_func.incr_mean_variance_axis`.
  By :user:`Alex Gramfort <agramfort>`.

Miscellaneous
.............

- |Enhancement| Calls to ``repr`` are now faster
  when `print_changed_only=True`, especially with meta-estimators.

Code and Documentation Contributors
-----------------------------------

Thanks to everyone who has contributed to the maintenance and improvement of
the project since version 0.23, including:

Abo7atm, Adam Spannbauer, Adrin Jalali, adrinjalali, Agamemnon Krasoulis,
Akshay Deodhar, Albert Villanova del Moral, Alessandro Gentile, Alex Henrie,
Alex Itkes, Alex Liang, Alexander Lenail, alexandracraciun, Alexandre Gramfort,
alexshacked, Allan D Butler, Amanda Dsouza, amy12xx, Anand Tiwari, Anderson
Nelson, Andreas Mueller, Ankit Choraria, Archana Subramaniyan, Arthur Imbert,
Ashutosh Hathidara, Ashutosh Kushwaha, Atsushi Nukariya, Aura Munoz, AutoViz
and Auto_ViML, Avi Gupta, Avinash Anakal, Ayako YAGI, barankarakus,
barberogaston, beatrizsmg, Ben Mainye, Benjamin Bossan, Benjamin Pedigo, Bharat
Raghunathan, Bhavika Devnani, Biprateep Dey, bmaisonn, Bo Chang, Boris
Villazón-Terrazas, brigi, Brigitta Sipőcz, Bruno Charron, Byron Smith, Cary
Goltermann, Cat Chenal, CeeThinwa, chaitanyamogal, Charles Patel, Chiara Marmo,
Christian Kastner, Christian Lorentzen, Christoph Deil, Christos Aridas, Clara
Matos, clmbst, Coelhudo, crispinlogan, Cristina Mulas, Daniel López, Daniel
Mohns, darioka, Darshan N, david-cortes, Declan O'Neill, Deeksha Madan,
Elizabeth DuPre, Eric Fiegel, Eric Larson, Erich Schubert, Erin Khoo, Erin R
Hoffman, eschibli, Felix Wick, fhaselbeck, Forrest Koch, Francesco Casalegno,
Frans Larsson, Gael Varoquaux, Gaurav Desai, Gaurav Sheni, genvalen, Geoffrey
Bolmier, George Armstrong, George Kiragu, Gesa Stupperich, Ghislain Antony
Vaillant, Gim Seng, Gordon Walsh, Gregory R. Lee, Guillaume Chevalier,
Guillaume Lemaitre, Haesun Park, Hannah Bohle, Hao Chun Chang, Harry Scholes,
Harsh Soni, Henry, Hirofumi Suzuki, Hitesh Somani, Hoda1394, Hugo Le Moine,
hugorichard, indecisiveuser, Isuru Fernando, Ivan Wiryadi, j0rd1smit, Jaehyun
Ahn, Jake Tae, James Hoctor, Jan Vesely, Jeevan Anand Anne, JeroenPeterBos,
JHayes, Jiaxiang, Jie Zheng, Jigna Panchal, jim0421, Jin Li, Joaquin
Vanschoren, Joel Nothman, Jona Sassenhagen, Jonathan, Jorge Gorbe Moya, Joseph
Lucas, Joshua Newton, Juan Carlos Alfaro Jiménez, Julien Jerphanion, Justin
Huber, Jérémie du Boisberranger, Kartik Chugh, Katarina Slama, kaylani2,
Kendrick Cetina, Kenny Huynh, Kevin Markham, Kevin Winata, Kiril Isakov,
kishimoto, Koki Nishihara, Krum Arnaudov, Kyle Kosic, Lauren Oldja, Laurenz
Reitsam, Lisa Schwetlick, Louis Douge, Louis Guitton, Lucy Liu, Madhura
Jayaratne, maikia, Manimaran, Manuel López-Ibáñez, Maren Westermann, Maria
Telenczuk, Mariam-ke, Marijn van Vliet, Markus Löning, Martin Scheubrein,
Martina G. Vilas, Martina Megasari, Mateusz Górski, mathschy, mathurinm,
Matthias Bussonnier, Max Del Giudice, Michael, Milan Straka, Muoki Caleb, N.
Haiat, Nadia Tahiri, Ph. D, Naoki Hamada, Neil Botelho, Nicolas Hug, Nils
Werner, noelano, Norbert Preining, oj_lappi, Oleh Kozynets, Olivier Grisel,
Pankaj Jindal, Pardeep Singh, Parthiv Chigurupati, Patrice Becker, Pete Green,
pgithubs, Poorna Kumar, Prabakaran Kumaresshan, Probinette4, pspachtholz,
pwalchessen, Qi Zhang, rachel fischoff, Rachit Toshniwal, Rafey Iqbal Rahman,
Rahul Jakhar, Ram Rachum, RamyaNP, rauwuckl, Ravi Kiran Boggavarapu, Ray Bell,
Reshama Shaikh, Richard Decal, Rishi Advani, Rithvik Rao, Rob Romijnders, roei,
Romain Tavenard, Roman Yurchak, Ruby Werman, Ryotaro Tsukada, sadak, Saket
Khandelwal, Sam, Sam Ezebunandu, Sam Kimbinyi, Sarah Brown, Saurabh Jain, Sean
O. Stalley, Sergio, Shail Shah, Shane Keller, Shao Yang Hong, Shashank Singh,
Shooter23, Shubhanshu Mishra, simonamaggio, Soledad Galli, Srimukh Sripada,
Stephan Steinfurt, subrat93, Sunitha Selvan, Swier, Sylvain Marié, SylvainLan,
t-kusanagi2, Teon L Brooks, Terence Honles, Thijs van den Berg, Thomas J Fan,
Thomas J. Fan, Thomas S Benjamin, Thomas9292, Thorben Jensen, tijanajovanovic,
Timo Kaufmann, tnwei, Tom Dupré la Tour, Trevor Waite, ufmayer, Umberto Lupo,
Venkatachalam N, Vikas Pandey, Vinicius Rios Fuck, Violeta, watchtheblur, Wenbo
Zhao, willpeppo, xavier dupré, Xethan, Xue Qianming, xun-tang, yagi-3, Yakov
Pchelintsev, Yashika Sharma, Yi-Yan Ge, Yue Wu, Yutaro Ikeda, Zaccharie Ramzi,
zoj613, Zhao Feng.
